# update-torbrowser(1) -- Tor Browser Updater by Whonix developers

<!--
# Copyright (C) 2012 - 2025 ENCRYPTED SUPPORT LLC <adrelanos@whonix.org>
# See the file COPYING for copying conditions.
-->

## SYNOPSIS

`update-torbrowser` [option(s)]

## DESCRIPTION

Lets you safely download the Tor Browser Bundle (TBB)
from The Tor Project's (TPO) website. It enforces TLS encryption (https) for
TPO's website, downloads TBB from the TPO's website,
and uses OpenPGP verification.

Default action when no options are given is to perform an update check and ask
how you want to proceed.

## OPTIONS

* `--alpha`

  Download alpha version instead.

* `--onion`

  Download from Tor Project's onion rather than clearnet domain.

* `--ordinary`

  Uses curl's ordinary progress bar. Only affects progress reporting.

  When using this option, the GUI progress bar will be stuck but downloading
  will still work. Note, when using this option, it wouldn't notice if the
  download server were to run an endless data attack, for example the server
  claiming to provide a 500.000 GB big file.

  (It does not use `/usr/libexec/helper-scripts/curl-prgrs`s
  `CURL_PRGRS_MAX_FILE_SIZE_BYTES`.)

  However, it can be compensated by either manually terminating
  `update-torbrowser` or by using the timeout utility as in the example
  below.

* `--only-if-newer`

  Do not download the Tor Browser when it is already up-to-date.

* `--noask`

  Do not ask any questions. Proceed without user interaction. Also sets input
  method to `--input none`.

* `--noaskstart`

  Do not ask if Tor Browser should be started after update was completed.

* `--nokilltb`

  Advanced users only. Do not kill all eventually still running instances of
  Tor Browser. Useful in case you want to update
  `~/.tb/tor-browser`, while still using
  `~/tor-browser_something_else`.

* `--no-tor-con-check`

  Skip Tor bootstrap connectivity check. (Only relevant in anonymity
  distributions.)

* `--input input`

  What to use as input method.

  `--input stdin`
  or
  `--input gui`
  or
  `--input none`

  When run in command line, by default, standard input
  (`--input stdin`) will be used. When using (`--input gui`), questions would be
  asked in the graphical user environment. When using (`--input none`), no
  questions will be asked.

* `--resume`

  Resume previous download.

* `--reset`

  Advanced users only. Hard reset. Do not re-download Tor Browser but only
  overwrite (delete and re-install) Tor Browser.
  This feature is not designed to fix Tor Browser issues. When running this
  program normally without `--reset` it does download and overwrite
  Tor Browser. There is no additional benefit from using `--reset`.

## AVAILABLE LANGUAGES

As in October 2012:

* ar
* de
* en-US
* es-ES
* fa
* fr
* it
* ko
* nl
* pl
* pt-PT
* ru
* vi
* zh-CN

## MORE LANGUAGES

To check if further languages are supported visit:

https://www.torproject.org/dist/torbrowser/linux/

## CONFIG FILE

/etc/torbrowser.d/30_default.conf

## ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

### Version

`tbb_version_stripped=version.number update-torbrowser`

See also EXAMPLES below.

## EXIT CODES

0 Success.

1 Internal Error.

2 Aborted because running under an unsuitable user account.

3 Cancel button pressed.

4 Unknown command line option.

5 Tor not enabled yet. (Only when using Tor connection check.)

6 Tor not fully bootstrapped yet. (Only when using Tor connection check.)

7 Connectivity test failed.

8 Downloading version file failed.

9 Could not find out latest Tor Browser version.

10 User aborted update confirmation.

12 OpenPGP verification error.

14 User aborted installation confirmation.

15 Extraction failed.

16 `--reset` used but required archive file not yet downloaded.

17 Download failed.

18 No network access.

130 Signal sigint received.

143 Signal sigterm received.

## EXAMPLES

`update-torbrowser`

`update-torbrowser --input="gui"`

`timeout 600 update-torbrowser --ordinary`

`tbb_version_stripped=10.5 update-torbrowser`

`tbb_version_stripped=11.1a2 update-torbrowser`

## BUGS

This script may break when the file name or RecommendedTBBVersions format
changes or when upstream makes other changes to the start process or proxy
settings detection method.

In this case, Whonix developers will try to provide a fix as fast as possible.
Please check Whonix News Blogs, Whonix Forum for a fix or workaround.

In meanwhile you can also try the instructions for manually update Tor Browser
in Whonix:
https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Tor_Browser/Manual_Download

## PORTING

This script is currently only tested in Whonix. It could be easily made to work
in Tails or on any Linux.

## WWW

https://www.whonix.org/wiki/Tor_Browser

## AUTHOR

This man page has been written by Patrick Schleizer (adrelanos@whonix.org).
